Texas Hold’em

Type of Game
The game of Texas Hold’em is a poker game where the patrons play against each other for “the
pot” of money on the table. The game does not utilize a player-dealer position. The gambling
establishment does not participate in the actual play of the game and has no interest in the
outcome of the play.

Object of the Game
The object of the game is for players to form a five-card poker hand that ranks higher than the
other players’ five-card poker hands. Each player may use any combination of the two cards
initially dealt to them at the beginning of the game, referred to as “hole” cards, and the five cards
dealt on the table throughout the course of the game, referred to as “community” cards or
“board” cards. They may play the board by using no hole cards and using the five community
cards, to make the highest ranking five-card poker hand, according to the rankings as shown
below.

Description of the Deck and Number of Decks Used
The game shall be played using one standard 52-card deck and no joker. The 52-card deck
shall be shuffled, cut, and dealt by the house dealer.

Card Values and Hand Rankings
The rank of each card used in Texas Hold’em when forming a five-card high poker hand, in
order of highest to lowest rank, shall be: ace, king, queen, jack, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, and 2. All
suits shall be considered equal in rank. The ace would be considered low any time the ace
begins a straight or a straight flush.
Card hands shall rank, from highest to lowest, as follows:

Texas Hold’em Hand Rankings

Royal Flush
A hand that consists of ace, king, queen, jack and 10 of the same suit.
Straight Flush
A hand that consists of five cards of the same suit in consecutive ranking.
King, queen, jack, 10 and 9 is the highest ranked straight flush and a 5, 4,
3, 2 and ace is the lowest ranked straight flush.
Four of a Kind
A hand that consists of four cards of the same rank. Four aces is the
highest ranked four of a kind and four 2s is the lowest ranked four of a kind.
Full House
A hand that consists of a three of a kind and a pair. Three aces and two
kings is the highest ranked full house and three 2’s and two 3’s is the
lowest ranked full house.
Flush
A hand that consists of five cards of the same suit, but not in consecutive
ranking. An ace, king, queen, jack and 9 is the highest ranked flush and a
7, 5, 4, 3 and 2 is the lowest ranked flush.
Straight
A hand that consists of five cards that are in consecutive ranking, but that
are not the same suit. An ace, king, queen, jack and 10 is the highest
ranked straight and a 5, 4, 3, 2 and ace is the lowest ranked straight.
Three of a Kind
A hand that consists of three cards of the same rank. Three aces is the
highest ranked three of a kind and three 2’s is the lowest ranked three of a
kind.
Two Pairs
A hand that consists of two pairs. Two aces and two kings is the highest
ranked two pairs and two 3’s and two 2’s is the lowest ranked two pairs.
One Pair
A hand that consists of two cards of the same rank. Two aces is the
highest ranked pair and two 2’s is the lowest ranked pair.
High Card
A hand that consists of five cards that do not make any of the hands listed
above. An ace, king, queen, jack and 9 is the highest ranked high card
hand and 7, 5, 4, 3 and 2 the lowest ranked high card hand.

Description of Table Used and Total Number of Seated Positions
The game shall be played on a standard poker table which shall accommodate up to ten seated
positions for patrons. Each seated position at the table shall have the same minimum and
maximum wagering limits during each round of play, as specified by the table limits. Backline
wagering is not permitted.

Dealing Procedures and Round of Play
1. The game shall utilize a flat white disk with the words “dealer button” on it to visually
designate which player is in the dealer position (in theory) for that hand.
	a. The dealer button shall rotate from player to player around the table clockwise after
each round of play.
	b. The player with the dealer button is the last to receive cards, and has the right of last
action on all rounds of play except for the first round, where the “big blind” shall have
the right of last action.
2. The game also utilizes two separate disks, one with the words “small blind” and the other
with the words “big blind” on them, to visually designate which player is in the “small
blind” position and which player is in the “big blind” position.
	a. The small blind and the big blind are used to initiate action and are positioned
immediately to the left of the dealer button and posted before the house dealer deals
cards.
	b. On all subsequent wagering rounds (second, third, and fourth), the action is started
by the first active player to the left of the dealer button.
	c. The small blind and big blind buttons shall rotate from player to player around the
table clockwise after each round of play.
3. When first opening a game, all players shall be dealt one card face-up, starting with the
player to the immediate left of the house dealer and continuing clockwise around the
table.
	a. The player with the highest ranked card shall receive the flat white disk with the
words “dealer.”
4. Once the dealer button has been distributed by the house dealer, the player to the
immediate left of the player with the dealer button shall receive the small blind button
and shall be required to place the small blind. Additionally, the player to the immediate
left of the player who received the small blind button shall receive the big blind button
and shall be required to place the big blind.
	a. Both blinds are predetermined and mandatory for the players with the small blind and
big blind buttons, and are used to initiate action.
	b. Both blind wagers shall be placed in the designated wagering area, referred to as
“the pot.”
5. Once the blinds have been placed in the pot, the house dealer shall deal one card facedown
to each player, starting with the player to the left of the dealer button, the player
that received the small blind button, and continuing clockwise around the table until all
players have two cards face-down.
	a. These initial two cards are referred to as “hole cards.”
6. Once each player has received their two hole cards, the first round of wagering will
occur. Players are given the following options, starting with the player to the left of the
player that received the big blind button and continuing clockwise around the table:
	a. Place a wager that is equal to the amount of the big blind or “call” a wager, meaning
to match the amount wagered by another player;
	b. Place their two hole cards face-down into the center of the table, referred to as a
“fold.” The hand shall be kept face-down and shall be collected by the house dealer,
who shall then place them in the discard pile. A player that chooses to fold their
hand will no longer participate during that round of play;
	c. Place a wager equal to the amount of the big blind as well as an additional amount
within the posted table limit, referred to as a “raise;”
	d. Call the raise, re-raise, or fold their hand. There is a maximum of three raises per
round of wagering, unless there are only two players participating during a round of
wagering, in which case there is no limit to the number of raises;
	e. The player in the big blind position may “check”, meaning they do not wish to place
an additional wager, or they may also raise, by placing an additional wager.
7. After all players have acted in turn and either called all wagers, raised or folded their
hand, the house dealer shall move all player wagers into the pot.
8. The house dealer shall then take the top card of the deck and place it in the discard pile
without exposing it, referred to as the “burn card.”
9. The house dealer shall then take the next three cards from the top of the deck and place
them face-up on the table simultaneously.
	a. This is referred to as “the flop.”
	b. These are community cards and are shared by all players.
10. Once the first three community cards have been placed face-up on the table, the second
round of wagering will occur.
11. All active players that called all wagers and did not fold their hand, shall be given the
following options, starting with the first active player to the left of the dealer button:
	a. Place a wager according to the established table limits;
	b. Do not make a wager, referred to as a “check”, with the option to call or raise a
wager by another player;
	c. Call a wager according to the rules and guidelines used in the previous round of
play;
	d. Fold their hand according to the rules and guidelines used in the previous round of
play;
	e. Raise the pot according to the rules and guidelines used in the previous round of
play.
12. After all players have acted in turn and either called all wagers, raised or folded their
hand, the house dealer shall move all player wagers into the pot.
13. The house dealer shall then take the top card of the deck and place it in the discard pile
without exposing it.
14. The house dealer shall then take one card from the top of the deck and place it face-up
on the table so that there are now a total of four community cards face-up on the table.
	a. This is referred to as “the turn card.”
	b. This card shall also become a community card and is shared by all players.
15. Once the fourth community card has been placed face-up on the table, the third round of
wagering will occur.
16. All active players shall be given the following options, starting with the first active player
to the left of the dealer button:
	a. Place a wager according to the established table limits;
	b. Call a wager according to the rules and guidelines used in the previous round of
play;
	c. Check according to the rules and guidelines used in the previous round of play;
	d. Fold their hand according to the rules and guidelines used in the previous round of
play;
	e. Raise the pot according to the rules and guidelines used in the previous round of
play.
17. After all players have acted in turn and either called all wagers, raised or folded their
hand, the house dealer shall move all player wagers into the pot.
18. The house dealer shall then take the top card of the deck and place it in the discard pile
without exposing it.
19. The house dealer shall then take one card from the top of the deck and place it face-up
on the table so there are now a total of five community cards face-up on the table.
	a. This is referred to as “the river card.”
	b. This card shall also become a community card and is shared by all players.
20. Once the fifth community card has been placed face-up on the table, which is the final
community card, the fourth and final round of wagering will occur.
21. All active players shall be given the following options, starting with the first active player
to the left of the dealer button:
	a. Place a wager according to the established table limits.
	b. Call a wager according to the rules and guidelines used in the previous round of
play.
	c. Check according to the rules and guidelines used in the previous round of play;
	d. Fold their hand according to the rules and guidelines used in the previous round of
play;
	e. Raise the pot according to the rules and guidelines used in the previous round of
play.
22. After the fourth and final round of wagering has been completed, the house dealer shall
move all wagers into the pot.
23. All active players shall then enter into a showdown with each other and compare their
hands.

How Winners are Determined and Paid
Players may use any combination of the two hole cards initially dealt to them at the beginning of
the game and the five community cards turned over throughout the course of the game, or they
may use the five community cards and no hole cards to make the highest ranking five-card
poker hand. The following shall apply for determining which player wins the pot:
	• The pot shall be awarded to the player with the highest ranking five-card poker hand,
according to the hand and card rankings shown above. All other players shall lose.
	• In the event that more than one player has the highest ranked hand, the pot shall be split
equally among all players with the winning hand.
	• In the instance that there are an odd number of chips, the odd chips shall be awarded to
the player closest to the left of the dealer button.